   ------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                N O T E

    NOTE: this file only provides a general overview of the Hercules build
    procedure and is not maintained regularly. Please also refer to the
    main "Installation and Operation" web page which provides additional
    more detailed instructions for building Hercules, including building
    the all important External Packages if necessary. The webpage URL is:

    
          https://hercules-aethra.github.io/html/hercinst.html

    
    The build for some platforms is also documented in our README document
    at: https://github.com/Hercules-Aethra/hyperion/blob/master/README.md

    The information below only provides general overall build information.
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------


Basic Installation
==================

   These are generic installation instructions for Unix-like systems.
   For Windows refer to README.WIN64 instead.
   For FreeBSD and OS/X (Apple) refer also to README.BSD.

   The `configure' shell script attempts to guess correct values for
various system-dependent variables used during compilation.  It uses
those values to create a `Makefile' in each directory of the package.
It may also create one or more `.h' files containing system-dependent
definitions.  Finally, it creates a shell script `config.status' that
you can run in the future to recreate the current configuration, a file
`config.cache' that saves the results of its tests to speed up
reconfiguring, and a file `config.log' containing compiler output
(useful mainly for debugging `configure').

   If you need to do unusual things to compile the package, please try
to figure out how `configure' could check whether to do them, and mail
diffs or instructions to the address given in the `README' so they can
be considered for the next release.  If at some point `config.cache'
contains results you don't want to keep, you may remove or edit it.

   The file `configure.in' is used to create `configure' by a program
called `autoconf'.  You only need `configure.in' if you want to change
it or regenerate `configure' using a newer version of `autoconf'.

The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1. `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code.

  2. Check that you have all of the necessary packages installed:
        util/bldlvlck
     This is a PERL script, so you need to have PERL installed to
     run it.

     then create the configure script by running:
        ./autogen.sh

  3. Build the Makefiles by running:
        ./configure

     Running `configure' takes awhile.  While running, it prints some
     messages telling which features it is checking for.

  4. Type `make' to compile the package.

  5. Optionally, type `make check' to run any self-tests that come with
     the package.

  6. Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.  See below for instructions on running directly from
     the build directory.

  7. You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'.  To also remove the
     files that `configure' created (so you can compile the package for
     a different kind of computer), type `make distclean'.  There is
     also a `make maintainer-clean' target, but that is intended mainly
     for the package's developers.  If you use it, you may have to get
     all sorts of other programs in order to regenerate files that came
     with the distribution.

Compilers and Options
=====================

   Any non-standard option is specified by options to configure; in
particular, options for debugging.  Trying to set variables such as
CFLAGS will not work.

Compiling For Multiple Architectures
====================================

   You can compile the package for more than one kind of computer at the
same time, by placing the object files for each architecture in their
own directory.  To do this, create a directory called, say FreeBSD, in the
directory where you have the hyperion directory.  Go to this directory and
issue "../hyperion/configure ...".  Then, still in the architecture
directory issue the "make" and "make install" commands.

   This is particularly useful if your source is on a NFS server being
accessed from multiple systems.  You might also use this approach if you
are trying to git bisect for an error.

   You may wish not to install Hercules in system directories, but run
directly from the object directory.  You must include this directory in
your PATH variable.  You must also invoke the "hercules" executable (which
is a shell script) once to create the real hercules executable (this is
normally performed as part of the install process).  Thus, your workflow
would be:

../hyperion/configure
make
./hercules

or better:

../hyperion/configure
make
make check

Installation Names
==================

   By default, `make install' will install the package's files in
`/usr/local/bin', `/usr/local/man', etc.  You can specify an
installation prefix other than `/usr/local' by giving `configure' the
option `--prefix=PATH'.

   You can specify separate installation prefixes for
architecture-specific files and architecture-independent files.  If you
give `configure' the option `--exec-prefix=PATH', the package will use
PATH as the prefix for installing programs and libraries.
Documentation and other data files will still use the regular prefix.

   In addition, if you use an unusual directory layout you can give
options like `--bindir=PATH' to specify different values for particular
kinds of files.  Run `configure --help' for a list of the directories
you can set and what kinds of files go in them.

   If the package supports it, you can cause programs to be installed
with an extra prefix or suffix on their names by giving `configure' the
option `--program-prefix=PREFIX' or `--program-suffix=SUFFIX'.

Optional Features
=================

   Some packages pay attention to `--enable-FEATURE' options to
`configure', where FEATURE indicates an optional part of the package.
They may also pay attention to `--with-PACKAGE' options, where PACKAGE
is something like `gnu-as' or `x' (for the X Window System).  The
`README' should mention any `--enable-' and `--with-' options that the
package recognizes.

   For packages that use the X Window System, `configure' can usually
find the X include and library files automatically, but if it doesn't,
you can use the `configure' options `--x-includes=DIR' and
`--x-libraries=DIR' to specify their locations.

Specifying the System Type
==========================

   There may be some features `configure' can not figure out
automatically, but needs to determine by the type of host the package
will run on.  Usually `configure' can figure that out, but if it prints
a message saying it can not guess the host type, give it the
`--host=TYPE' option.  TYPE can either be a short name for the system
type, such as `sun4', or a canonical name with three fields:
     CPU-COMPANY-SYSTEM

See the file `config.sub' for the possible values of each field.  If
`config.sub' isn't included in this package, then this package doesn't
need to know the host type.

   If you are building compiler tools for cross-compiling, you can also
use the `--target=TYPE' option to select the type of system they will
produce code for and the `--build=TYPE' option to select the type of
system on which you are compiling the package.

Sharing Defaults
================

   If you want to set default values for `configure' scripts to share,
you can create a site shell script called `config.site' that gives
default values for variables like `CC', `cache_file', and `prefix'.
`configure' looks for `PREFIX/share/config.site' if it exists, then
`PREFIX/etc/config.site' if it exists.  Or, you can set the
`CONFIG_SITE' environment variable to the location of the site script.
A warning: not all `configure' scripts look for a site script.

Operation Controls
==================

   `configure' recognizes the following options to control how it
operates.

`--cache-file=FILE'
     Use and save the results of the tests in FILE instead of
     `./config.cache'.  Set FILE to `/dev/null' to disable caching, for
     debugging `configure'.

`--help'
     Print a summary of the options to `configure', and exit.

`--quiet'
`--silent'
`-q'
     Do not print messages saying which checks are being made.  To
     suppress all normal output, redirect it to `/dev/null' (any error
     messages will still be shown).

`--srcdir=DIR'
     Look for the package's source code in directory DIR.  Usually
     `configure' can determine that directory automatically.

`--version'
     Print the version of Autoconf used to generate the `configure'
     script, and exit.

`configure' also accepts some other, not widely useful, options.
