Hercules is released under the Q Public License (QPL), version 1. For the
text of the license itself, see the file html/herclic.html in this
distribution.

The license will be changed for all files in this distribution licensed
under the QPL to the MIT license, included below, on July 1, 2024, in
accordance with the following notice posted to the Hercules mailing list,
hercules-390@groups.io, on January 1, 2024.

Future contributions to Hercules will only be accepted under the MIT license.

***

Hercules is distributed under the Q Public License, a license not used, to
the best of my knowledge, by any other major project. I think we need to
relicense it.

The fundamental problem is that we have not been in compliance with the QPL's
terms for two decades. The QPL requires that software be distributed as the
original source as released by the original author plus patches. We've never
done it that way, because it would require things be managed by Roger Bowler,
and he hasn't done that since the turn of the millennium. This puts all of the
developers at legal risk, small though it may be. It's even questionable
whether using a shared forge such as Github is legal.

On top of that, because of our noncompliance with the license, folks who
maintain Linux distributions, and anyone who distributes Hercules as a binary
for any operating system, could also be in violation of the license.

In addition, there are major components of the system - all of the external
packages, for one, and a couple of other pieces - that are distributed under
the MIT license, and a few pieces that are explicitly public domain. This
makes for an even larger mess. 

To this end, I intend to relicense the Hercules code in the Aethra repository
on July 1, 2024, to the MIT license. This process will involve replacing the
copyright statements in every source file with ones compliant with the SPDX
standard (the copyrights themselves will not change), as well as replacing any
license statements with the equivalent SPDX header. For more information on
SPDX, see https://spdx.dev/ . SPDX is widely adopted as the standard way to
express copyright and license information in open source software.

I am willing to consider alternative licenses, and would prefer, if the MIT
license is not acceptable, to use the Apache 2.0 license. None of the
GPL-style licenses will be considered.

This notice is being sent to the hercules-390 mailing list, as well as
directly to those who I know to be major contributors to the Hercules
codebase. Anyone who knows of a contributor that should receive it and is not
subscribed to hercules-390 is welcome to pass along contact information to me,
and I will ensure they are notified.

***

The MIT license:

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.